From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist and Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lauren's
Ryan announcing show number one
41. Recorded live Thursday, December 4th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by Tellerik rad controls.
The most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by document
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks coding
for fun with Dan Fernandez
and Brian peak. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And in this very
special episode of Hansel minutes,
we're talking to Dan Fernandez,
my good buddy from coding
for fun and from channel
nine and Brian peak. How's
it going guys? Hey, how's
it going? So you have
taken the coding for fun,
the sweeping the nation, and
you have squeezed it and
turned it into a book
for fun and profit. Hopefully
you're gonna make piles of
money on this thing. Yeah,
we're, we're looking at tens
and hundreds of dollars, potentially
Hundreds of dollars, a Chipotle
coupon out of this as
some kind of a gift
card writing a book does
not make a lot of
money. Correct. So, so Dan
coding for fun is a,
was a site on MSDN.
And now it's more of
a blog. When did this
start? This was a couple
of years ago. Yeah. So
this was a, a couple
of years ago, Brian Keller and
I started coding for fun
duck and McKenzie used to
have an article dedicated to
coding for fun. And it,
it really is okay. We're,
we're done at developers. What
ways, what are the interesting
ways that we can use
our.net skills to build interesting
applications? So that, that would
be things like, wow, could
I actually hack, you know,
world of Warcraft and, and
make it such that I
can input data in BB
or C-sharp or what could
I do to actually borrow
videos from YouTube using by
downloading them and converting them
from flashed video into a
MP4, and then, you know,
interfacing with the iTunes, which
is one of the projects
in the book. It's again,
it's fun, cool things that
you can do. And the
simpler all in BB and
C sharp in the book,
but it's it that's really
the, the, the thinking behind
coding for fun. The site
is how do we do
like the killer stuff? The
things that you watch on,
on YouTube, whether it's the
remote videos that are really
popular, et cetera. And this
is not just for professional
programmers, but this is for,
for hobbyists, for anyone, Right?
Exactly. It's people that have
a passion for building fun,
cool stuff, or, you know,
interfacing with games, hardware, building
cool utility or productivity applications,
or, or even doing April
fool's day pranks. Now, who
do you pull from when,
as source material from, for
the coding for fun blog,
you just, will you take
articles from anyone We do.
We probably get, I'd say
a five or 10 articles
a year from people. I
think the challenge is with
a lot of people is
they have the ideas, but
their projects always sort of
50% complete and they never
get around to actually finishing
the project and publishing an
article about it. But yeah,
we do take external authors
as well as regular contributors,
like Brian peek and Clint
Rutgers. And you used to
be one as well. Yeah,
I did. I did a
bunch of them, but we
had a thing called some
assembly required, but I think
that you just called out
the point that I had
trouble with is that I
could always get things to
50%. I mean, I'm, I'm
looking at a laptop that
is attached to a Roomba
with a rubber band on
the Roomba. I actually got
from you out of storage
and it's about 50% there.
You know, it goes forward
and backwards, but there's, there's
just issues. And I haven't
quite had the, you know,
the weekend or however long
it's gonna take to dedicate
myself to finishing that thing.
It's just so easy to
get it to halfway right
now that the book though,
the book are complete, these
are all totally complete. You
can build these yourself kind
of projects. Yeah, exactly. And
the projects are available. You
know, they're open stores, they're
either on code plaques or
our book site, which is
C the number four F
book.com. You can just download,
even if you didn't like
the book, you can actually
download the projects and play
with them. And there's Okay.
So what are some of
the more difficult projects that
you've got in the book?
I'll talk about some of
the ones that I've worked
on, and then I'll let
Brian peak talked about some
of the ones he had.
So one of the ones
I was working on his
inner tube, and it's the
one where I explained earlier,
I love YouTube. I want
to be able to download
videos, but not just download
one at a time. Cause
that that's pretty easy. And
there are tools I actually
want to download entire feeds
of videos. Like what are
the top videos this week,
top rated videos? What are
the most favorited videos? What
are the most shared? Let
me download all of those.
And, you know, the actual
downloading of the stuff we're
using link for XML to
get the data and then
to actually download the videos.
Well, a YouTube video is,
you know, about 10 megs
say on average, but if
you have three feeds and
each of those has 25
videos, then you're downloading, you
know, 750 megabytes onto your
drive. So there's a number
of things that had to
do using a utility called
the smart thread pool to
actually download those asynchronously and
download every single thumbnail image.
And, and the behavior of
their performance is actually different
where you want to use
less threads for downloading the
thumbnails cause they're relatively small.
And you actually do a
lot of context switching versus
using more threads that download
the videos. And even once
you have 750 megabytes of
those videos, those are flash
videos. You need to convert
them to WMV, to play
them, say in Zune and
to iTunes, you need to
convert them to MP4. So
then you're converting another 750
megabytes videos into, you know,
1.5 gigabytes videos and then
deleting the other flash videos
and doing this all asynchronously
in the background and being
able to do it was
really, really large files. And
think about the, the threading
was some of the fun
challenges that we had. And
this is just trying to
do this whole thing. One
button simple, right? Exactly. It's
at a feed and then
click download now. And obviously
it does take some time,
but once you download the
flash video, we see if
it's already there. So it
doesn't read, download the video
and it checks kind of
what part you are in
the steps. So even if
you do need to disconnect,
it's sort of smart about
restarting it again. It's not
going to force you to
download all those videos again,
That doesn't YouTube. Try to
keep you from doing that.
Doesn't that qualify as leaching
or not necessarily not necessarily
stealing. I mean, I guess
watching a video, isn't really
no different than downloading it,
but don't, they have some
authorization to prevent you from
doing this. Yeah. That was
some of the other fun
stuff is, is how do
you work around the limitation?
So it turns out if
you actually go to a
feed to download the flash
video by itself, the URL,
it doesn't actually work. What
happens is you need a,
an authentication token. And we
talked about this in the
book, how to do it,
but literally we had to
do a screen scrape of
a, of an HTML page
look where they're building the
flash video in an object
tag and read in JavaScript
variables in C-sharp just by
doing some text parsing, read
out that, that JavaScript authentication
token, then that same URL
to download the video will
actually work as long as
you pass in the token
as well. Okay. So you're
really simulating the same interaction
that happens when someone hits
it with their browser. Right.
Exactly. Very cool. Okay. And
how long did that take
you? You know, I had
probably a 50% version in
2004 and then I just
started to go a little
crazy on the features and
probably a couple of weeks,
especially in terms of writing
and some of the visual
basic porting and some of
the other stuff that, that
didn't make it into the
book just for length. But
for example, one of the
things we have and it'll
be available as a download
is how to use the
windows scheduler. So that way
you almost have like a
TiVo, rather than you needing
to launch inner tube, press
a button, you can use
the windows scheduler and actually
schedule that application to run
and to download the video.
So that way you'll have
the videos, you know, you're
about to get on a
plane, you know, Scott's going
to South Africa, wouldn't it be
great if he had all
his favorite YouTube videos are
automatically downloaded without him having
to press the button. That's
cool. That's cool. Of course,
after you go to all
this work, they'll like, they'll
go and build this into
like the Zune software iTunes,
and it'll just work automatically.
But until then I can
have this delivered directly to
my, to my MP three
player just by running your
stuff as a scheduled task
and, and synchronizing when I
sync my player. Yeah, exactly.
And, and we also show
how iTunes actually has their
own SDK and you can
automate iTunes within BB or
C-sharp code. You literally just
add their Tom object. And
even in the iTunes, SDK
includes VB and C sharp
samples. So we can show
you, like, if you just
wanted to, to have that
application and know how to
hack iTunes or automate iTunes,
you can do that as
well. Rock on. Cool. So
what kind of hardware did,
did you work on Brian
Chapters that deal with the
moat? So a one chapter
allows you to build a
remote controlled car, which he
can drive around your house.
I don't know everybody. Mmm.
The Johnny Chung Lee with
his Waymo. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman with a word
from our sponsor. Do you
know how to build web
2.0 Ajax applications with web
1.0 components? You really can't.
If you want to do
the next generation web applications
you'll need next generation components.
Just like the ones that
our friends at Telerik have
got their rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax. It's a
huge pack of web controls
built on top of asp.net,
Ajax that lab previously impossible
performance interactivity to your next
project. The new controls mirror,
the Ajax API from asp.net.
So development is really straightforward.
The client scripture shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
really efficient operation, the new
rad editor from ESPN Ajax,
Telerik loads up to four
times faster than before. And
the new rad grid handles
thousands of records and just
milliseconds, but as always, it's
best to try for yourself.
So you can visit
dot com slash ASP, net
Ajax, and download a trial.
Thanks a lot. Now I
know who Johnny Chung Lee
is, but for those listeners
that aren't aware of the,
the godlike figure and the
shed long shadow that Johnny
Chung Lee casts on us
all who is Johnny Chung.
Lee Is a, is actually
just a, a, I think
he was a master student
PhD. Was he a PhD?
Okay. Yeah. Actually, no Microsoft,
No way. Yes. We hired
John Shanley. Yes, dude. Who
does it Applied? Sciences team.
Talk about a win, huh?
Wow. I did Not know
that. Yes. True story. Excellent.
That's awesome. He, he created
a couple of videos, a
couple of projects that used
the remote essentially backwards from
the way it's supposed to
be used. So we most
got a little IRR sensor
on the front of it,
which you point at your
television. And there's that little
bar that you sit on
top of your TV. And
it can kind of determine
where the we mode is.
You know, what direction it's
pointing at the television set.
And what he decided to
do was to take the
we mode and put that
essentially on top of the
television set and then move
around IRR LEDs. So his
two examples of this is
one is putting IRR LEDs,
essentially on glasses with a
piece of software running on
the television so that when
you move your head around,
you're actually getting a head
tracking. So you can actually
see the targets in his
example, that screen move around
as your head moves around,
which gives this really interesting
3d perspective on what's happening
on the screen. Now, if
I remember correctly, the, one
of the things that he
did was really creative was
that he took the remote.
He lashed it to the
top of the screen, and
then he got an IRR.
He built an array of
IRR, like an IRI emitter
array by going to radio
shack and getting like, I
don't remember what it was.
There's like 30 little IRR
deals. You made like a
donut stuck the remote through
it so that the IRA
would shoot towards you. The
person reflect off of you.
And then back into the
we mode. Yes, He did
a, almost like it was,
it was a multitouch without
touch where you kind of
have to have a little
reflectors on your fingers that
would, that would reflect that
I light being shined at
you. So you can actually
manipulate objects on the screen
using your hands kind of
like a minority report style
interface. Yeah. So, so he
did this by interfacing with
the remote, which speaks Bluetooth.
How do you talk to
a wee mode Is, is
a, an almost 100% compatible
Bluetooth device. It doesn't support
everything that Bluetooth does. So
it's a little awkward to
get connected to your, to
your PC sometimes. But the
fact that it is Bluetooth
does allow you to pair
it with a PC. And
I don't know, buddy you're
year and a half ago,
I wrote a library called
remote live, which is up
on code flex that allows
you to use the remote
from any dotnet application. So
it's a little C-sharp and
DB source code that provides
a pretty simple API. And
it's an event based API
that will notify you anytime.
Anything changes on the remote,
any state. And it works
with all the extension controllers
and the balance board. So
you can use it to
do some cool stuff like
Johnny did. Now, why is
it almost, what's the, what's
the trick when you say
almost compatible, that means, you
know, totally incompatible. I mean,
if it's 99% compatible, then
it's 1% completely incompatible. What
kind of issues They're like,
if you have like a,
like a Bluetooth headset and
you turn off your phone
and turn off the headset
and you turn everything back
on everything, repairs, nicely, the
Waymo doesn't support a mechanism
like that. I mean, it's,
it's kind of part of
Bluetooth, but it's, it's not
there on the, we mode.
There are also some other
lower level type things where
you should be able to
ask the controller what things
it supports and get back
these hid reports and whatnot.
And they're, they're mostly complete,
but it doesn't, they're not
quite following the standard because
the only thing that we
mowed ever needs to connect
to is a, is a
we and Nintendo controls both
sides of that. So they
don't really need to implement
the standard fully, but enough
reverse engineering work has been
done such that we can
get around those limitations and
actually use it on a
PC. Pretty cool that, that,
that, that they've got, they
at least use an open
standard to the point where
we could do something. Absolutely.
So what, what API is,
are you using in your
library? Are you, are you
kind of sinking into the
Bluetooth stack or what, what
do you have to do
if I want to set
this up today, It's actually
the, it remains pretty much
entirely outside of Bluetooth when
after, after you pair the
Bluetooth after, after you paired
the remote to your PC,
it'll show up as an
hid compliant via human interface
device. So using the hid
APIs that are built into
windows, you can essentially enumerate
through all the hid devices
that are on the PC,
find the one that is
the remote, and then you
essentially open a, a, a
file handle to it. And
it's a matter of writing
bytes to it and reading
bytes from it, asynchronously and
converting those packets of data
into something usable. So you
mean like, like when you
say a file handle, you're
saying that you're going and
using the standard file, open
APIs, and you're saying, I
think it's like backslash backslash,
backslash dot something, something, yep.
It's a user create file
to a, to open a
handle to it. And it's
got a very, very long
pad name, which is, which
is the hardware ID, according
to the according to windows.
Wow. And you've, you've taken
this all in and encapsulated
it in your SDK so
that I don't have to
think about that. Now, The
only thing, if you, you
need to pair your remote
and create an instance of
the object and called connect,
and then you hook up
one event and that event
gives you every bit of
information about the remote. Wow.
Now, how hard is that
to think about? I know
that I'm a person where
X and Y makes a
lot of sense, but then
you start talking about pitch
and yaw. What do I
need to study and learn
about in order to be
able to effectively make the
we mode? Let me use
it in like quake or
something. Not a whole lot.
I mean, there's, there's, there
are two important, well, actually
three important pits of data
that come back to you
every a hundred times a
second, essentially, there's the, if
you have the IRR camera
turned on, it's the X
and Y position of up
to four IRR LEDs that
it sees. So it's just
standard two dimensional coordinates. You've
got the accelerometer data, which
is going to be a
value between negative one and
one a that's not actually
true. Cause you can actually
add what the is between
negative one and one when
only the Earth's gravity is
acting upon it. But if
you start to, to actually
pro you know, provide motion
to it and throw it
and move it around, you're
accelerating it. And so the,
the gravity becomes higher and
so you'll get higher values,
but you're going to get,
you know, three numbers and
X and Y and Z.
So you can determine which
way it's tilted, because if
it's lying flat, the, the
pitch will be zero. And
as you tilt it up
to a vertical position, the
pitch will go from zero
to one. And then as
you move it around, you'll
start to get higher values.
And that way you can
determine if it's being shaped,
she can shake, shook the
past tense to shake, right?
Not with a huge deal
of accuracy, but you can,
you know, at least 10
configure out in which direction
it's moving. And the third
bit that you get, or
just the state of the
button. So, you know, is
the a button being held
down or is the D
pad, you know, up being
pressed down. So you're going
to get float values back
into your values back and
bullying's back. So Now, which
there are two remote projects,
there's a remote control car
and then a virtual earth
one, No, there's the Waymo
car. And the Johnny Lee. He
actually wrote the chapter. It's
the, his whiteboard, Oh, really
A third project that he
did, which is up on
his side that allows you
to take a and modify
a, a dry erase board
marker and put an IRR
led in the end of
it. And you shine a
wee mote and a projector
at a screen. And then
you, your marker has a
little led on it. You
push the button, it turns
the led on and the
remote can then track where
it is on the screen.
And at the same time,
the PC is projecting the
image onto that screen. So
you can, you know, paint
on the screen or click
buttons, move the mouse, cursor,
et cetera. Wow. Now how
practical are these things? I
mean, they're, they're fun. And
I watched them on, on
YouTube. And I think this
is amazing, but is this
to the point where somebody
who's listening could go and
build one of these and
suddenly changed the way they,
they, they work at their,
maybe they have a software
company and they, they really
want to a whiteboard, but
they don't want to spend
$10,000 for it. With people
that have taken Johnny's base
ID and his original source
code and turned them into
pretty fully functional. We emote
whiteboards, electronic whiteboards fuel expanded
it to use multiple remotes.
So in case you wind
up standing in front of
it and blocking the camera
a second or third or
fourth, Waymo will pick up
the Slack and determine, you
know, where things are on
spring and keep it all
in sync left, right? Middle
button mouse, clicking special software
for, for, it's just, I
I've, I've seen some, some
amazing leaders, something there's one
boon gin is his name,
create something called the remote
smooth board, which is one
of the better implementations of
the whiteboard. And he actually
contributed a bit to the
book with his smoothing algorithms
and whatnot. So you can
actually get nice, beautiful curves
as you're drawing with your,
your IRR light pen. And
I, I bought a friend
of mine. He had, and
I'm trying to remember what
college he is at, but
they actually took this and
integrate it with a piece
of software they have for
doing mind mapping or any
of great Creek flowcharts and
link ideas together and whatnot.
So as you're standing in
a meeting, as people are
throwing out ideas, you can
write them up on the
board and connect them in
ways using this as an
electronic whiteboard. So the whole
audience can see it at
once and we're actually interacting
with the stuff on the
screen. Very cool. And all
the source is in the
book. What else is in
the book that someone would
get that they couldn't find
on the web? There's a
number of projects that, that
aren't on coding for fun
now. And don't have the,
how tos, like inner tubes,
a good example. Another one
we had done, which was
peer cast, which is using
a windows protocol called peer
name, resolution protocol P NRP.
And what it allows you
to do is actually join
an ad hoc peer network,
almost like a custom mesh,
if you will, and exchange
information. So like you want
to be able to stream
videos that you recorded on
your windows media center. You
install a peer cast on
there, and then you from
anywhere in the world can
connect up on the, on
the internet. Assuming you have
a network that supports P
and RP, which is probably
the big part, and actually
watch your videos anywhere in
the world. Very cool. And
this is Through firewalls because
that's one of the things
that PNR piece, Huh? Other
ones are, we have probably
a less sophisticated one, but
it's using pop fly and
building a two D game.
It turns out Lego has
this software called Lego digital
designer. And what it allows
you to do is actually
build custom Lego models and
you can then export them
as images. And we actually
use build silver light characters
in pop fly and build
a, to do game we're
actually sort of battling underground
facilities to destroy an evil
scientist. Exactly. So, so a
number of the projects, the
only way to get the
contacts is with, with the
book and even then the
other ones, like I'd say,
Johnny's, there's a number of
different updates. And we know
the source code works and
drawings, and we explanations of
not only how the code
works, but how to set
up the project. And a
number of them, the ones
Bryan's have done are, are
step-by-step. So if you've never
say built an X and
a game, it actually shows
you step by step for
building your first X and
a No X. And a
of course is the, is
the game is the, the,
the graphics library for that,
for the X-Box right. It's
for PC X-Box and Zune
at the moment. Okay, cool.
Yep. The book it is.
So the game was just,
I mean, it's a simple
little, two dimensional space, invaders
clown, cause since a game
that probably everyone recognizes, but
take you step by step
on how to build the
entire game, you know, manage
game state, manage your title,
screen, manage input sound for
ethics, explosions, collision detection all
the way from beginning to
end to create this simple
little game that runs on
with all the graphics
and sound files and everything
you need in order to
get started briefly. What are
a couple of other projects
that you guys didn't work
on personally, but that are
still in the book. There's
Twitter vote, Twitter vote. That
was one. We all contributed
to that one, but yeah,
we did it in some
way, but that's the one
that was Clinton. Rutgers had
started his primary project there,
which is a, a voting
system for Twitter, where you
can use Twitter to pose
a question to everyone that's
listening to you, and then
they can reply back to
you, their answers to the
poll that you've asked them,
for example, like what, what's
your favorite video game console?
And you can give the
options of, we PlayStation Xbox
three 60 and then everyone
that's watching you on Twitter
can reply back with their
answer. And we use a
pop fly to create a
nice, pretty Silverlight graph that
displays the results. Anytime you
want to view them. And
we actually use that in
our coding for fun session
at a PBC, which can
be downloaded. Right. I think
Scott, when the poll there
too, unfortunately he did. I
voted for myself like 20
times. Cool. All right. Well,
you can get the book
at tiny url.com/website. Thank you
very much for talking to
me about, this has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.